Okay, we're back on. Okay, back for just a moment. Do you pronounce it Lilith or
Lilith, that first book? Lilith. Lilith, I thought so. Of course, that's
supposedly Adam's other lover, you know. It's an apocryphal book of the Bible.
Okay, the question I want to ask about, I guess this is asking an author what he
meant by something. I'll try not to put it in those terms, but you have these
two, I guess, societies. The big one, the Confederacy, which is technological
and everybody conforms. They look alike, they think alike. On the other hand,
you have the Society on Lilith, where everybody is, not only are they
individuals, and not only do they not have any technology, but they are
literally one with their environment because of the warden organism. Right. I
detected a great deal of sympathy on your part for that type of society, you
know, an anti-technological one. Of course. Well, no, no, absolutely not. I'm,
under no circumstances, anti-technological. I am not in any way anti
-technological. I'm a big booster. I'm a great believer, for example, that
genies can't be put back in bottles, and in most cases shouldn't be. What I am
saying is that any technology developed, history shows, and I'm a historian, and
I'm trained in history, history shows that any technological development that
can be misused will be, and that it can also be used positively, and that what
we have is a, the politics, bureaucracy, and so on will tend to misuse it, but
that they can never stamp out the individualism or the independence. I think I'm
very optimistic in the fact that the human spirit always comes through. My
people win, and they sometimes win with very sophisticated technological
methods.
What I'm really saying is that most of these futuristic civilizations are using
technology to develop a least common denominator society, or lowest common
denominator society. That is, it's the same thing when I was teaching. I mean,
they would throw these enormous classes at me, and some of these people would be
extremely advanced and extremely intelligent, and some of these people would be
barely literate and unable to think the next minute, let alone the next, or the
last hundred years. And you have the problem if you have a complete mix of these
kind of things. You have the question of who do you teach to? It's too large to
single out the exceptions. I mean, when you're dealing with 160, 180 people,
it's very difficult to teach to a dozen different levels all at the same time.
And you're almost forced into the lowest common denominator teaching standard as
long as you've got the situation. One of the great crises of American education,
a totally sincere socialist society has much the same problems in that they must
address the lowest common denominator for all of their people. You know, you
start with the basics and so on, but you really have nothing for the exceptional
people without compromising your principles. Of course, what the socialist
societies do is they compromise their principles. They give privileges and extra
pay and cars and dodges in the country to their exceptional people. But if you
don't compromise your principles and the larger group that you have to deal with
the less compromise you can have, the more you're addressed to this. And this is
exactly what most of my future societies have. They just take current technology
and they say, you know, these are not evil societies. If you take... These are
very well-meaning societies. But they address... What they want to do is make
everyone the same. They want to make everybody equal. And in order to make
everybody equal, you must make everyone the lowest common denominator. So, I'm
not even saying that it's a misuse of technology. It is simply the result of
this idea. Now everybody's going to say, oh, he's a monarchist or something. No,
he's not. But all I am saying is that as long as you're forced, you're literally
forced into this philosophy to go for the lowest common denominator, and that
this is going to extinguish the human spirit. But they can't extinguish it. It
keeps popping back up. And given an opportunity, it will pop back up. In the
case of the Warden Diamond, you have it populated with the nonconformists, the
ones that the system could not do. Some of these people should have really have
been executed. I mean, they're really psycho, and they're really weird, and
they're really awful kind of people. And others are simply political dissidents,
people who just simply cannot fit. And in the third book in the series, which is
not out yet, which is much, much more complex, and much more involved, and much
darker than the first two, we have at one point a character who says that they
formed a core of assassin, secret police, and so on to ferret out those who
simply could not be adapted to the system. And they were sent here, and they
thought it was going to be a temporary thing. They thought that after a couple
of hundred years, this could be phased out. And, but no matter what they've
done, no matter how many people they've tracked down, killed, re-educated, or
exiled to the Warden Diamond, no matter what they've done, there's always
somebody else. They just keep popping up. Because you can't repress it. It's
going to be there. The most unremittingly depressing version of this is the well
world confederacy, not confederacy, what is that? Veneration? Yeah, or something
like that. Yeah. After 16 books, you get to the point where you don't remember
what you used. But that's probably the most unremittingly depressing where
they've gone even to the common denominator one better. They're genetically
breeding everybody identically, this kind of thing. And the fact is that on
those worlds you really don't have people popping up. but in the people who go
between those worlds, you do. They're sort of immune from this. There's also the
theory in all the books that as long as you have a frontier, you can never
totally suppress humanity. Yeah, I think that was the calm world in the well
world series by the way. I think that's what it was. Okay, yeah, all right,
that's fine. I suspect a little bit that that agent, the one who's monitoring
all this, is starting to change some of his values because of what he's...
Exactly what the... Part of what the book is about is that we have a sort of
surrogate hymn down on each of these worlds who starts off pretty much almost
identical to him. And he's following this whole thing with his whole system of
values, beliefs, and so on. And he's watching these surrogates change into quite
different people. And it begins to eat away at his own sense of values, his own
sense of duty. As a matter of fact, in the third book, he begins to realize that
the people who sent him there on this mission anticipated this. And that his
computer detective aid we have dialogues with and discusses everything with may
be more than that. It may be something of a watchdog.
and he starts to have problems in figuring out how he's going to get around this
computer. And of course, in the fourth book, he's going to have to because he's
going to have, in the end, he's going to have all the pieces together. He's
going to have to really have it in his hands the fates of millions, maybe
billions of people. And he's going to have to decide how to balance this all out
with the way he's now looking at things. And it's going to be a tremendous
challenge. And I know it's going to be something of a challenge to write it. I
do think that the solution to the entire thing is I don't, I don't like cop
-outs. I don't like stringing people along and then not delivering. I don't know
you will get real I don't know whether you can say flesh and blood but something
aliens and whatever they're made of you will meet the aliens you will have a
face down and the solution to the whole thing and exactly what's going on is
quite bizarre and I don't think anybody's going to figure it out. And causes an
even greater problem. Aliens are of course the most fun thing to do and also the
most difficult to do well.
Yeah you said oh I'm sorry go ahead. No I'm sorry. I mean after all when we have
something like the well of souls since we have everybody starting from a common
denominator Markovian we can assume a lot of things in common between all of
these races no matter how weird they are but we can't we can't do that with a
truly alien race. So I think the best alien race I ever drew is coming up in a
book from Pocket Books this July called The Identity Matrix which is not really
a book about aliens at all. It's a somewhat contemporary political thriller
about mind control but within it it does have aliens who have the ability to
body switch and I think I've addressed for the first time how and why an alien
society would develop such a system it's an old gimmick it's been used many
times aliens are among us and they can change bodies with us but what would
cause a race to evolve or develop such a thing and this is addressed and
answered and shown within the book I'm pretty proud of those aliens it's been
used okay that's out in July yeah that's going to shock a few people it has all
sorts of kinky sex and all sorts of bizarre things and so on happening within it
and if if anyone well the moral majority will hate that book but what it
actually does is it addresses it's not the book you think you're reading when
you start if you start reading the book you will say oh it's another aliens are
among us and they can body switch type book and it's not it's a story about what
would happen if the United States government discovered that there were aliens
among us and that they could body switch what would any government do you have a
crash program right you have a crash program to find out how they do it you take
the best people you take the best everything the best computers the best experts
biophysics biochemistry computer science so on you put them all together with an
unlimited budget and you keep it very very secret so that everybody doesn't get
paranoid you know body snatchers and all that but it turns out the aliens aren't
even interested in us they just drop fire occasionally they're totally
irrelevant but they crack the code they never figure out how the aliens do it
but they figure out another way to do it because once you demonstrate to the
scientist that something can be done he's going to figure out a way to do it
given the proper money and material and they do crack it and once you can take
this information and go from mind to mind using a digital encoding system and
it's a very tricky process because you can't you can only take selective parts
of the brain otherwise you're going to stop heart you're going to stop lungs you
know all the autonomic services and then so once they can take selectively the
information they want store it and then feed it into a different place they have
the capacity not only to store they have the capacity to edit and once they have
the capacity to edit they can change your mind any way you want to and naturally
this is not necessarily being run by dirty types this is being run by middle
level government bureaucrats and so the Washington Post discovers this and they
don't try and cover it up they invite the Washington Post reporters out they
give the Washington Post reporter a demonstration and then nothing appears in
the paper and Congress bought the appropriations for things they're not quite
sure what's going on out there so they invite the committee out give them a
demonstration then the committee goes back decides super secret doesn't tell us
all and passes all the appropriations you want and so on that's what the book's
about okay yeah that sounds interesting let me change direction for just a
second I'm sure you've spoken on this or written on this or thought about this
great deal what draws people to science fiction
basically I think that of all people Gene Roddenberry was one that pointed out
the fact that you can do any type of novel any type of story that you want as
science fiction or fantasy that is you can do a serious political novel you can
do a social commentary you can do all sorts of serious stuff with science
fiction and make it both more palatable and more comfortable to people because
you set it in the far future or you put on you put these attributes onto an
alien race and it becomes easier for people to take so that's the appeal to
writing is that you have the ability to write any kind of book you want to write
within its context and you can be as subtle or as broad as you want and so on it
has a lot more freedom than the contemporary novels you've got very rigid
constraints then on the other hand why people pick up science fiction fantasy I
think is because first and foremost because they want an escape because they
really don't like you know I mean you look at the evening news you read the
papers you know 20 dead in El Salvador this morning 15 house fires are set by
mad arsonists downtown rape is up you know all of this kind of thing they're
scared to go down the street in many of the cities so on these days after dark
seems like problems problems problems unemployment lines and then you can pick
up science fiction fantasy and you can jump into that other world and you can
become a part of it and you can be what something else be somewhere else so it's
the ultimate escape literature and of course once we've got you in the escape
literature then we sneak in the serious stuff okay then you do see it as having
some value in terms of significance say social significance or something like
that oh absolutely I think that a great deal of contemporary science fiction and
fantasy is very much dealing with people dealing with universals you can it's
dealing one of my best examples of this is if you go back to Dickens Dickens
wrote serious social commentary on the times you know he was after the union
workhouses he was after the terrible misuse of child labor and you know all
these terrible things all these social causes he addressed social causes a lot
almost none of these social causes are relevant today the conditions of Oliver
Twist just don't exist right now we may have our own different things but those
issues that concerned him no longer concern us and yet we read and enjoy Dickens
and the reason why we do is because he addressed something beyond his social
causes first of all he gave us plots and characters that we can involve
ourselves into second of all he sat down and he addressed something that we can
recognize there are universals in there greed bureaucracy good evil right wrong
all of these universal things you know what should and shouldn't be done that
transcend his time and his personal causes of that time and I think that serious
writers of science fiction and fantasy are very much in the same situation the
more we the further away we get from contemporary settings the more we can deal
with these universals these problems these questions uh it is a very very
serious literature not for everybody who writes it but then again have you
checked the best settler list lately and uh and see how many serious novels
you've actually gotten the best settler list uh but I think that a serious
novelist with serious things to say can do it better easier and in a way more
timeless in science fiction and fantasy than he can in the contemporary novel
and I've written both and will write both again okay excellent that's a fine
answer um sort of related to that uh usually when we talk to different authors
we always ask them their opinion on this particular subject uh there is a
distinction or at least people believe there is one between so-called mainstream
literature and science fiction some authors believe it's simply uh something the
publishing industry does that there is no distinction others think they should
be kept separate Norman Spinrad thinks they are the same thing they should not
be separate do you think that there is a distinction I mean are they actually
different kinds of literature mainstream and science fiction and should they be
kept separate no they aren't um there's no way that you can it is rather odd
though it's an ambivalent answer um uh Clifford Simak once said that there is
some difference because uh science fiction writers you will find writing every
other form of literature mysteries romances mainstream war novels you name it
but when people who write other things try and write science fiction they
usually fall flat on their face uh and uh but I'm not sure whether that just
doesn't address the fact that people who writers who are attracted to science
fiction uh simply have have to have a little more versatility in a wider range
than than someone who's writing detective novels uh on the other hand I really
don't think there's any difference except what the publishers put on it uh for
example uh I've never seen the word science fiction or fantasy connected with
Stephen King at all and he is nothing if he's not a science fiction and fantasy
writer almost exclusively uh Frank Herbert uh gets on the bestseller list with
uh God Emperor of Dune uh Phil Farmer is on the bestseller list with um I mean
the regular bestseller list with uh uh River World books and McCaffrey got on
with the White Dragon uh we take a look at some of these things there is a very
conscious effort on the part of publishers to differentiate uh not just science
fiction but all so-called category fiction because they feel that they feel more
secure that way uh there is a bedrock of people who will buy science fiction the
bedrock of people who buy modern romance the bedrock of people who buy detective
and if you can categorize them you automatically have that base market that 30
or 40,000 people who buy that particular category and it's very comforting
because it means that if they can categorize it if they can make it easy for the
people to find it in the stores that way that they will automatically reduce or
minimize their potential losses they're starting off with a good bedrock on the
other hand you do find a conscious effort on the part of publishers to deny that
science fiction or fantasy is science fiction or fantasy when they believe it
has broader bestseller repeal King is a very good example one but not the only
one Neville Shoot about 70% of Neville Shoot's work is basically science fiction
and yet you'll never see that you have you have an artificially created ghetto
but frankly the only thing you notice is that if they are going for bestseller
status deliberately they simply try and remove all category labels when they
market it and when they promote it but there really isn't that much difference
an awful lot of people write an awful lot of stuff and some of it a great deal
of it is science fiction and fantasy whether or not it's categorized that way
and it's the ghettoization of it is strictly a marketing thing does that answer
the question? Yes it does and that sort of leads nicely into my next one I
probably agree with what you say but I don't think in any other field any other
category of fiction that I can think of is there such a unique relationship
between readers and authors you know conventions and fanatics that sometimes
fans can be and so forth but that sort of relationship between working authors
and the readers you know through the conventions through the mail through the
fanzines no other field has that does it? Yeah to an extent although I will
admit that most of the other category that have it were have it because people
from science fiction who are also interested in that moved over. The media
oriented conventions were all done by science fiction people. The comics
conventions were all done by science fiction people. There's a modern romances
convention on Long Island which has a lot of science fiction people involved
organizationally and so on and there's a mystery convention every year that's
done mostly by science fiction people. I think that they're better organized at
it because they've had 40 years practice. They know how to do it. But on the
other hand I do kind of wonder whether or not we really have this as much as
people think. there are maybe 5,000 people worldwide who are active in a more
than once a year type of situation or one event situation in the science fiction
fandom and yet you know I saw a million copies and where are the other 995
thousand people. See what I mean? Yeah. The fact is that anybody who really
depended on these would start the death which is something that is very hard
sometimes for the science fiction fans to accept. They do have a
disproportionate influence but only in one area. They have a disproportionate
influence in terms of the awards and that's the only area because the members of
world science fiction convention for example each year that post the hugo which
are very prestigious awards means a lot of money to science fiction writers. How
do they mean money by the way? the hugo because it's been around so long and
it's had so much publicity and it's been so well promoted by the industry is
generally recognized by the regular science fiction book buying public most of
whom do not know how the hugo was actually given. Hello? Yeah, I'm here. Oh,
okay. I just heard it quick there. And as a result
the fact is that I remember one hugo winner who said that when she got on the
train to go home she had her hugo with her under her arms. She wasn't going to
let it go. And the conductor on the train looked down and said isn't that a
hugo? So, you know, in other words basically the conductor reads science fiction
and he recognized the award he just did not recognize. He didn't know anything
about how it was awarded or anything else but he knew it was an enormously
prestigious award. Therefore putting hugo award-winning author on the front of a
book means that these non-fans will recognize this as something singled out of
exceptional and they will buy it. It's worth quite a lot of money to someone who
has not won one. I doubt seriously whether it would mean a dime to an Asimov or
an Arthur Clark or Robert Heinlein. You know, these people already have their
wide markets. But it means an awful lot to particularly first-time winners. And
it means that the publisher knows that by putting this on there, they're
automatically going to have sales of two or three times what they would have
otherwise without even bothering to promote it. And of course you are going to
promote it. It gives you promotion money as well, which means that I believe
somebody's estimated that the minimum worth for Hugo, the minimum worth is
around $50,000. Okay, that is interesting. It's not bad for a $35 award. Yeah,
that is interesting. From the point of view of a professional like yourself, is
the Nebula one to be more desired than the Hugo? I think the Hugo is more
desired. I think the Hugo is, as I say, commercially recognized. The Nebula,
unfortunately, it sounds great. It's an award given by the science fiction
writers to themselves. But because it's such a small group that does it, and
because of an inordinately complex and ridiculous system of nominations and a
lot of politicking, Oscar-style politicking and everything else, it really boils
down to cliques of friends being able to nominate themselves year after year.
And the Nebula is quite often won by a mere 40 votes. I would have thought that
of the two awards, the Hugo would probably be given more on politics or caprice
or such and things like that. No, because it's got a much wider base. You may
have thousands of votes. And you know this is going to these votes are going to
come both from the professional community, not only writers but editors,
publishers, artists, and so on, but they're also going to come from the hardcore
science fiction fans, the people who read this far more than the general public
does. The average person in this country buys what is it, six or seven books a
year, and we all know what those six or seven books are. So we're talking about
people who buy 20, 40, 50, maybe 100 science fiction books a year, and read
them. And so the combination of that several thousand people, it makes clicking
and politicking almost impossible. Okay, let me get back to you for a minute
before we finish up here. I don't have too much more to ask. By the way, I won't
take either award. Yeah, I'm sure. Well, I don't see how you can miss on some of
the things you've been writing. I really don't. I've never been nominated. Never
even nominated? No. That's incredible. I don't see how you can miss on this new
series, though. There must be something that's going to come out of that. Well,
we'll see. Oddly enough, series books are less likely to win things because a
lot of people don't even, you've got a much shorter nominating window, the
amount of time you're eligible. And the fact is that many people, particularly
the more serious ones, the likely voters, quite often wait until all the books
in the series, if it's a fixed series of four books, before they read it. By
that time, it's too late. Yeah. Yeah. Okay, listen, just a little bit here about
your working habits. Are you a disciplined writer or you work sort of
erratically according to mood or how do you go about your actual writing
process? Whoops. Yeah, I'm still here. Yeah, that's a call coming in on another
line. Do you want to catch it? If you can hold for just a minute. Surely. No
problem. Hang on.
Sometimes these phones really get ridiculous. Okay, we got the tape rolling,
again. Go ahead. Do you remember the question? No. How about your working
habits? If you're a disciplined writer or erratic? Yeah, I hear, I mean, I know
Fred Powell and Roger Blasby fairly well. They have this rigid rule. They crank
out so many words a day, either new or revision, you know, and it's absolutely
religious. Break the Camp's another one like that. and I can't do that. There
may be fairly long periods when I do nothing and then I will go into a tear.
However, I'm always working. disciplined in the sense, maybe even more of a
sense than some other writers in the sense, but before I sit down as a
typewriter, I already know the whole book. I approach books in the same way that
Albert Hitchcock approached movies, where you work out everything in advance.
You work it out in your head, you work it out until by the time you get down to
writing it, it is mostly a mechanical exercise. So if somebody says, well gee,
how long did it take you to write Midnight at the Well of Souls? Well it took me
five weeks to write. It took me about a year between the concept and everything
else. By the time I had everything completely worked out and had the book
solidly in my mind, then I could sit down and write it and then it took me five
weeks to type it.
So there are long periods of time when I'm choosing which project to go next and
then when I seize on one I work it out, try and form it up, see what's ready to
go, then develop the entire thing, sketch it out on my mind and on crazy
notepads and you name it, and when I finally got it pretty well completely
worked out, there may be a few gaps here and there, but you know, the basics are
all there. only then do I sit down and then it's better just simply typing out
the book, and that goes pretty fast, so I can sometimes do using the system, I
sometimes do 30, 40, 50 pages a day. Yeah, okay. But am I disciplined in the
sense of writing every single thing? No, I'm not. Writing, I find that if I try
and write X number of words a day every day, I wind up having to destroy most of
the words. The time I get sit down, there should be a minimum amount of
rewriting. You should read mostly my first draft, because it should be right.
Yeah. Did you say a little while ago that you were working on a fantasy book
right now? Yeah. Like pure fantasy, you mean? Fantasy quest book.
Although, since Four Lords is a pretty serious book, or a pretty serious set, I
wanted to do something that was a bit less serious. I'm getting actually a
little bit tired of fantasy quest cliches. So I am writing a large involved
fantasy quest novel, novel, in which things are not going to be the way anybody
expects them. And in which it will be more than a little bit cockeyed. It will
not be necessarily broad comedy. There will be a lot of serious pastos and a lot
of serious episodes in it. I'm not going to make fun of fantasy as such, but I
am going to make fun of all these people doing the same fantasy over and over
again.
And people are going to be taken aback when they settle back very comfortably
and discover that things aren't quite the way they imagined them. I guess a good
example would be one episode where I've got, where the hero, this is very, very
much an 80s type episode where the hero comes into this small village and all
the young women frankly throw themselves at him and beg to be seduced and
abandoned. And it's some time before he realizes that it's not a sex appeal but
that a great dragon has been seen in the area. And everybody knows that dragons
eat only virgins. And since it's a good, moral, upstanding town, they can't get
any help from the people there. Besides, the people there want a virgin to
sacrifice. And as a result, every stranger that comes along gets propositioned.
Yeah, I imagine that'll be marketed as pure fantasy and some people will be a
little surprised when they read it then, huh? Yeah, well, yeah. I'm aiming it at
the fantasy market, although of course I have a large number of people who will
buy anything with my name on it, which is nice and comfortable. So, I've done
one fantasy before I did it, and the devil will drag you under. So, nobody's
ever decided whether Midnight at the Well of Souls is fantasy or science
fiction, and I let them play around with it because I don't really care. Okay.
In this case, though, I'm deliberately, I mean, we'll have our dragons and our
unicorns and everything else, events, and we'll have our great classic fantasy
quest and all the heroic battles and everything else, except, as I say, it's not
going to be quite the way everybody expects it to be. Okay, let me change
direction for just a minute now. We're just about running out of tape. What
about, this is something that I always wonder about, not because I'm personally
interested, but I've heard people say this before, that science fiction, the
field, is one of the best areas for a young writer to get into? Well, it would
normally be true. Normally. Although, of course, I don't think that anyone can
get into this field unless they're well-grounded in it. They know science
fiction, fantasy, very well. Because before they can go to the wider audience,
they have got to reach that hardcore, that 30,000 readership. Otherwise, they're
not going to get bought. And to do that, you've got to know your field very
well. Right now, of course, it's a time of cutbacks. I would not like to be a
new writer starting right now. Because, well, I'm having no trouble selling,
and, say, Norman Spinrat's having no trouble selling. Certainly, a number of
other established professionals are having no trouble selling. Newcomers, if
they sell at all, they're going to sell for peanuts. And they're going to get
the worst possible deal. Because nobody's interested anymore. All the publishing
companies are now owned by the Hollywood divisions of massive international
conglomerates. They're looking for a media type of deal. They're looking for
bestseller status. They're looking for people that are going to make money with
minimum risk. So the old established professionals have the advantage there. And
the newer writers, they're not really interested anymore in the generation of
writers. I've witnessed the fact that all the big money and all the big
promotion is going to the people who've been writing for 30 years. What about
the magazines? Well, certainly, I think the short fiction end, there's a good
deal of opening. And, of course, that's a way in the back door. If you do a
large and successful fund of short fiction, and you build your audience that
way, and then you can go with your novel to the publishers and say, I have the
audience already. That was John Barley that went that route. Joe Haldeman went
that route. And that's an exceptionally good route. Sharon Webb is about to do
that route. Sometimes, just direct calls.
Just start training the novels. Novels are the only way you can make money. You
cannot make money for short fiction. But you can establish a strong reputation
in the short fiction end.
And they're certainly wide open to new faces. Analog and Asimov, in particular,
are always interested in new faces because they have to fill a specific amount
of space every single month. They have 13 issues a year because of their
schedule. and it's an awful lot when you've got to fit in short stories,
novelettes, mix them all together. So yeah, they're open and they're interested.
The field is open. The trouble is, of course, there are only really three
magazines and a few peripheral magazines where you can do it. There just aren't
enough places. Asimovs, analogs, and fantasy and science fiction are the three
primary in the field markets to build a reputation. There's Omni, of course, but
they only buy two stories a month. And you can imagine the amount of stories
they get. And then back over in Arizona, there's Amazing, but it pays not at all
and it has such a small circulation that it doesn't make much of a reputation.
and that's really, really about it.
The trouble is, it's not economical to do magazines anymore. Any magazine that
cannot be advertised or supported is in terrible trouble because they not only
have trouble getting shelf space on their local newsstand, they have equal
trouble just in postage rates alone with their subscription. Horribly expensive
to do magazines. Okay, listen, we're just about running out of tape. There are a
lot more things. I'm enjoying this talking to you immensely, but I'm thinking
we're taking a lot of your time and we are running out of tape. Well, I don't
mind time that much, but... Yeah, well, listen, I was going to ask you, I think
this is all the tape we brought for the interview. This too, we're probably
going to end here, but listen... I warned you. Yeah, well, listen, I was going
to ask you if there's anything that... any topics or anything you'd like to add
or that you'd like to get on the air or anything like that. Oh, I can't really
think of anything. I can go for hours. Yeah, that's sort of a dumb question,
but... But listen, what we'd like to do perhaps is... Oh, I don't know, some of
your future books come out, maybe call you up, update some of the things and do
another show on... See, because our shows, what we do is we get this interview
and then we edit them into five-minute shows. We're on the air every day. And
so, you know, calling you up sometime, maybe one of your books comes out,
getting some more information, doing a spot show on that here and there might be
a big help to us too. That'd be fine with me. No trouble at all. Yeah, and... Am
I going to hear any of these shows? Well, okay, the situation is this. We were
on the air for one year locally here in West Texas. Once a week, 30-minute show.
Okay. We sent some sample tapes to the Longhorn Radio Network, which is a
national network. They liked it and said, okay, we'll take it for national
distribution, national syndication, but we want a five-minute format for every
day of the week, which is a tremendous change for us. So we have been retooling
and re-gearing for that, and we start... We start nationally, I guess the 1st of
April, and we don't know which stations are picking it up because the brochure
has just been mailed. Yeah, listen, we will send you copies of the tapes, and
when we... That would be... Oh, we will do that, and when we find out which
stations are picking it up, we can even let you know that, but it's really up to
the... Any station in the country that wants it can pick it up. So we don't know
how many are going to take it as of yet. Because I can tell you when and if I
know it's coming, even if I'm in this area, I can notify Valentine's pocket and
those types, and their PR department can hype it. That's fine. Promotion is a
lot in this business. Well, yeah, we're beginning to realize that. That's
absolutely true. We're working on some angles, too, that are going to help us,
we think. But, yeah, we will let you know. We'll give you the tapes. We'll let
you know when they give us some dates and some stations, we will let you know.
I'd like to hear how it airs. Oh, surely, yeah. Not necessarily with hearing it
over the air, although I would like to know pretty much, for publicity purposes,
I'd like to know where it's going, but just out of curiosity, I'd like to hear
what comes down. Sure, well, yeah, well, the tapes that we would send you would
be the air copies. You know, they'd be the ones that would be on the air, so you
could tell from that, too. Yeah. Okay, well, listen, that was immensely
interesting. We sure appreciate your time, Mr. Chalker, and I'll be waiting for
your future books. All of us will. We're all fans of your work. We've got two
coming out this year. We've got Third of the Four Lords, and we've got Vanity
Matrix. Yeah. And Valentine is reissuing my whole back list. Yeah, that's great.
So then, well, you see, that's where the money is. Yeah. That's really where the
money is. Yeah. It's once you've paid off, once they've sold enough that your
advance is long since gone, and just twice a year, you get these marvelous
checks, and you never have to do another thing for them. Yeah. And the more of
those books you can keep in print, the more money you get. Well, I hope the
movies come through, too. Well, I'd love that, because that would help all the
books. Yeah. And would allow me to do some other stuff. Yeah. And I have not
found any trouble, by the way, selling mainstream. Yeah. As a matter of fact,
thanks to John Jakes and people like that, it's not bad at all to have a science
fiction writer walk in and say, hey, I've got this book or this series.
They're very impressed with science fiction writers now in the mainstream, but
of course they don't want science fiction books. Yeah. Yeah. Unless you already
have the movie tie-in or you have this movie blockbuster so that you can do a
Stephen King. In which case, then, they don't want you to write science fiction
anymore. Yeah. Well, okay, then, listen, we better let you go. listen. Listen.
Listen. Listen. Listen. Listen. Listen. Listen. Listen.